Gold medalist and Former Paralympian Oscar Pistorius’s has bagged an extra 13 years and five months prison sentence for murdering his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp. A sentence double the previous six years. Prosecutors had argued that the initial six-year term for murdering Reeva Steenkamp was too short. After an appeal and four years, the South Africa’s appeals court ruled that the lower court was wrong to offer the disabled Olympian leniency when sentencing him. On Valentine’s Day in 2013, Oscar Pistorius shot Reeva Steenkamp by firing four bullets from a handgun through a closed bathroom door in his luxury home she was in,  claiming he mistook her for an intruder. History was made in 2o12, when a double-amputee raced at the Olympic Games. While racing 400m track, before 80,000 roaring fans and a constellation of camera flashes, it took Oscar Pistorius 45.44 seconds to become a global icon. Winning the race transported Pistorius from a disabled young man to a world class athlete, although his success story was cut shot on February 14 with the killing of his celebrity model girlfriend. Sponsors dumped him and he was forced to sell his homes in the face of mounting legal bills. Getting even more famous for the wrong reasons Pistorious sat months in a windowless court room hoping for miracle. Finally, there was a ray of hope when High court judge Thokozile Masipa initially sentenced Pistorius to five years for culpable homicide in 2014. However, that hope was dashed when the Supreme Court of Appeal ruled that there were no reasons to give a lesser term than the prescribed 15 years. Steenkamp’s family welcomed the increased sentence saying it showed that justice could prevail in South Africa. “This is an emotional thing for them. They just feel that their trust in the justice system has been confirmed this morning,” Tania Koen, a spokeswoman for the Steenkamp family, said. With just a name and medals, the blade runner is broke  and broken as he serves his term behind bars.